---
layout: page
title: Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /curriculum_vitae/
---

## Education

#### B.A.Sc in Mechanical Engineering

**University of Toronto**  
*Sep. 2019 - Apr. 2024*

- Mechatronics Stream + Bioengineering Stream
- Minor in Robotics and Mechatronics
- Certificate in Engineering Business
- Certificate in Engineering Leadership

---

## Work Experience

>#### Undergraduate Researcher
>
>**[Guenther Laboratory](https://guentherlab.mie.utoronto.ca/) - University of Toronto**  
>*May - Aug. 2023, Sep. 2023 - Apr. 2024*
>
>- Characterized the propagation of pressure waves through non-Newtonian fluids in microfluidic channels via particle image velocimetry (PIV).
>- Created custom DC-electrical circuits to synchronize pressure wave generation with PIV measurements.
>- Utilized SU-8 soft-lithography, FDM & multi-jet 3D printing, laser cutting, and manual machining to construct experimental setups designed with SOLIDWORKS and AutoCAD.

>#### ***Assistant TA Training Platform Administrator***
>
>**[FASE](https://www.engineering.utoronto.ca/) - University of Toronto**  
>Jan. - Mar. 2021, Sep. - Nov. 2021, Aug. - Nov. 2022, Jan. - Dec. 2023
>
>- Reduced TA training evaluation times from 4 hours to a few seconds by coding a Python script that auto-evaluates a TA’s training completion based on their working group’s criteria.
>- Converted the auto-evaluation Python script into an Excel macro using Visual Basic for Applications to prevent a drop in efficiency from future non-technical staff.
>- Co-created an interactive training platform using the Canvas LMS for virtual training of engineering TAs.

>#### ***Teaching Assistant (TA)***
>
>**[APS100](https://engineering.calendar.utoronto.ca/course/aps100h1) - University of Toronto**  
>Sep. - Dec. 2022, Sep. - Dec. 2023
>
>- Led and managed a tutorial class of over 40 first-year engineering students and provided guidance on topics such as time management, engineering ethics and academic integrity.
>- Helped students find and navigate resources available at U of T such as academic advisors and learning strategists.
>- Provided training for new Teaching Assistants regarding facilitation and classroom management.

>#### ***Senior Student Analyst - First Year Curriculum***
>
>**[FYEER Group](https://istep.utoronto.ca/people/chirag-variawa/) - University of Toronto**  
>May - Aug. 2021, May - Aug. 2022, Oct. 2022 - Apr. 2023
>
>- [Investigated](https://ojs.library.queensu.ca/index.php/PCEEA/article/view/17070) how large-language models can be used to derive insight from unprompted student questions on Piazza discussion boards.
>- Analyzed survey and discussion data using tools such as Pytorch, Hugging Face Transformers, and ChatGPT.

>#### ***Student Analyst - First Year Curriculum***
>
>**[FYEER Group](https://istep.utoronto.ca/people/chirag-variawa/) - University of Toronto**  
>May - Feb. 2021
>
>- [Investigated](https://doi.org/10.24908/pceea.vi0.14866) how the Expectancy Value Theorem can be implemented with NVivo to gain insight into student motivation levels by analyzing class discussion boards.

>#### ***Student Intern - Computer Repair Technician***
>
>**[Fujitech Technologies](https://www.fujitech.ca/)**  
>Jul. 2018, Jul. 2019
>
>- Repaired hardware issues in laptops from a variety of manufacturers including Apple, Dell, Acer, Lenovo. etc.
>- Built custom PC workstations for private individuals and larger corporations.
>- Resolved software issues in Windows and MacOS.

---

# Volunteer Experience

>#### ***Webmaster***
>
>**[HiSkule](https://hiskule.skule.ca/home/)**  
>Jul. 2022 - Jun. 2023
>
>- Completely redesigned the club website using WordPress by modernizing the aesthetic and providing a more intuitive user interface.
>- Maintained and updated the club website to attract hundreds of students to Hi-Skule engineering outreach events throughout the year.
>- Mentored and encouraged high school students at events to pursue engineering at U of T by leading hands-on activities.

>#### ***Member - Mechanical Powertrain***
>
>**[University of Toronto Formula Racing Team](https://fsaeutoronto.ca/)**  
>Aug. 2021 - May 2022
>
>- Used SOLIDWORKS to design mounts for coolant pumps and the car's chain guard.
>- Led workshops for junior members on designing parts to be manufactured using forged carbon fibre.

>#### ***Member - Business***
>
>**[University of Toronto Formula Racing Team](https://fsaeutoronto.ca/)**  
>Nov. 2020 - May 2022
>
>- Secured over $10,000 of in-kind sponsorships by reaching out via email and phone to potential sponsor companies.
>- Curated Instagram posts highlighting team progress and sponsor shout-outs.
>- Maintained and updated the team website using Squarespace.

>#### ***Member - Aerodynamics***
>
>**[University of Toronto Formula Racing Team](https://fsaeutoronto.ca/)**  
>Nov. 2020 - Nov. 2021
>
>-Approximately doubled the downforce generated by the car's undertray via iterative re-design and evaluation using SOLIDWORKS and Simcenter STAR-CCM+
---

## Certifications

#### [**Certified SOLIDWORKS Associate in Mechanical Design**](https://cv.virtualtester.com/qr/?b=SLDWRKS&i=C-JNW6HMXZB8)

---

## Awards

>#### ***NSERC Undergraduate Student Research Award***
>
>**Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council**  
>May - Aug. 2023
>
>- Scholarship awarded to conduct research at Guenther Laboratory in the fields of microfluidics and bioengineering with a focus on bioprinting.
>- Total amount: $7500

>#### ***First Year Summer Research Fellowship***
>
>**University of Toronto**  
>May - Aug. 2020
>
>- Prestigious scholarship awarded to 7-12 first-year engineering students based on academic excellence and research potential.
>- Conducted research in engineering education with the First Year Engineering Education Research Group.
>- Total amount: $7000

>#### ***Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering Admission Scholarship***
>
>**University of Toronto**  
>Sep. 2019
>
>- Admission scholarship to U of T’s TackOne, Undeclared engineering program based on academic merit.
>- Total amount: $2000

---

## Skills

#### Software

- SOLIDWORKS / Fusion 360
- AutoCAD
- Ansys Mechanical
- DaVis 8 / OpenPIV
- PrusaSlicer / OrcaSlicer / Cura
- NVivo 12 Pro
- Microsoft Office / Google Workspace / LibreOffice
- WordPress / Squarespace / Wix / GitHub Pages
- Photoshop / Affinity Photo / GIMP
- Premier Pro / Blender VSE

#### Programming Languages

- C / C++
- Python
- MATLAB
- Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)
- Assembly

#### Programming Tools

- Git
- Pandas / NumPy / Matplotlib / Plotly
- PyTorch
- Visual Studio Code / Arduino IDE
- Robot Operating System (ROS)
